one of your uh high school friends said
uh when I was partying he was playing
basketball when I was waking up Kobe was
playing basketball before class how
would you describe your dedication to
the sport even back then well I I tried
to find a balance right I tried to do
both you know I had a great deal of
energy so um if there was a school party
going on or something like that I mean
I'd play basketball for a few hours you
know I do what I have to do and have fun
doing it and then I go to the party and
I show up and I have a good time have
fun and I be up at 5:00 in the morning
you know working out working out and you
know training the next day so I I tried
to try to do both whether it be then or
now to what extent have you found
yourself over the years having to forego
Hobbies forego even in some instances
close friendships to focus on basketball
yeah well this obviously I mean a great
amount of sacrifice um because it is
time consuming and you do have to um
really focus on your craft a great deal
and do you realize it when you're going
through it or because you're so focused
on what you want to do you're just kind
of oblivious to No it's it's it was
probably different for me the most
because it was uh it's what I truly
wanted to do it's what I enjoy doing so
it wasn't like I was I didn't feel like
I was giving something up I felt like I
was gaining something because I enjoyed
I enjoyed playing Coach K uh says you've
really changed your workouts over the
years as you've aged you've changed the
regimen you've been Innovative in many
respects in what ways well you have to
evolve you know so like the things I was
doing when I was 19 years old to prepare
and to train you know in terms of the
explosiveness the um you know the the
impact I will put on my body the stress
levels I put on my body to train and
prepare I can't do the same things now
you know at 33 years old uh cuz it just
be counterproductive you know so you
kind of have to evolve and you know do
some cross training and how much of a
difference do you notice between what
you were able to do then and what you're
able to do now well I mean you know I
could is it glaring when it becomes
glaring is when you have practice in the
morning you know it's like a 10: a.m.
practice and you show up to practice and
you kind of look up at the basket and
you're
going yeah probably couldn't dunk right
now yeah yeah you know cuz your body's
just kind of tighten and kind of hurting
and stuff when you're night 18 you go up
and you're just like oh that basket
looks like it's about this High you just
wake up out of the bed and you start
doing 360s and windmilling and stuff and
yeah not doing that anymore how would
you explain that mindset of just trying
to continuously improve I enjoy what I
do you know this is fun for me you know
I I I truly love what I do and I'm
that's where the passion comes from
that's where the will to get better
comes from it's just because I truly
enjoy I enjoy the preparation yeah as a
kid explain why you would study
bubblegum basketball cards well because
you know you could kind of see uh the
little intricacies of each move and you
know just toe pointing a little this way
is this pointing is is it this way when
he's pivoting is you know so it's just
little things like that you know body
positioning defensive stance you know
where the weight is on the defensive
player you know where the sh where his
head where the player's head is when
he's shooting a basketball you can kind
of see all those little details and why
were you looking for that cuz I was a
nerd
your high school coach Greg Donner uh
says that you might actually be a little
embarrassed by how much you love
basketball yeah is that true Pro yeah I
mean it's it's like well I mean it's
like anything you know it's I just so
happen to be playing basketball like if
I was a computer um kid you know in high
school people would have probably made
fun of me you know what I mean and it's
just so happen to be basketball what I'm
passionate about and you my passion
knows no bounds but It embarrasses you
well I mean it's just a little little
weird a little strange I mean when
you're around like in the Olympics I'm
around other athletes who kind of share
that same you know that same mind same
mindset it's it's fun to be around them
because we can have conversations about
those things Rob rori uh says he's never
seen somebody who can see a move another
guy does and pick it up as quickly as
you uh explain what you'll do well I
know exactly what he referring to I mean
I I I watched we played against the
Houston
Rockets and um I was still a young kid
he was 18 19 years old and I'm watching
the Keem alijan up close and he's doing
his dream shake and I'm just kind of
watching and I asked Robert hey Robert
how did how did the Kim used to practice
that move because they played together
they won a couple championships together
so Robert kind of went through you know
how he watched the Keem practice and
stuff like that and then the next
practice I go right to the post and I
start I start doing a dream shake and
mimicking that exact move why do you
think you were able to pick it up so
quickly because I've been playing since
I was two so like you know every move
I've plent there are plenty of
basketball players who've been playing a
long time yeah not since two though and
now for as long as I have you know just
by osmosis you pick up so many things
and your in your muscle memory is that
that you can watch something and just go
out right away and and and do
it for more clips from this interview
visit grens singer.com
[Music]
okay